<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?--><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css"/>
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc"/>
  <title class="category">jBC/jBASE Features</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="jbcjbase-features-category" class="section level1">
<a class="dashingAutolink" name="autolink-0"></a><a class="dashAnchor" name="//apple_ref/cpp/Category/jBC%2FjBASE%20Features"></a><h1 class="category">jBC/jBASE Features</h1>
<ul>
<li>Case sensitive keywords and variable names.</li>
<li>Optional statement labels.</li>
<li>Code sections accessed by GOSUB.</li>
<li>IF...THEN..ELSE conditional statement.</li>
<li>BEGIN CASE...CASE...END CASE conditional statement.</li>
<li>FOR...NEXT loop.</li>
<li>DO..WHILE/UNTIL...REPEAT loop.</li>
<li>External subroutines and functions.</li>
<li>Weak variables typing; implicit types conversion.</li>
<li>Dimensioned and dynamic arrays.</li>
<li>String, number, and date data conversion.</li>
<li>Patterns matching.</li>
<li>Unary operators support.</li>
<li>Single- and multi-byte character sets support.</li>
<li>Bitwise operations.</li>
<li>Standard industry encryption algorithms support.</li>
<li>Named and unnamed COMMON areas.</li>
<li>Operations with SELECT lists.</li>
<li>File and record level locking capability; distributed lock system.</li>
<li>Text files processing.</li>
<li>Functions for XML processing.</li>
<li>Manipulations with environment variables.</li>
<li>Emulation modes for compatibility with numerous MV platforms.</li>
<li>Practically unlimited data file size (OS limits apply).</li>
<li>Data files distribution.</li>
<li>Transactions support.</li>
<li>Transparent access to jBASE data and dictionary files converted to Oracle, DB2 or MS SQL.</li>
<li>Possibility to call C or Java code.</li>
<li>Possibility to execute any jBASE, system or database enquiry command.</li>
<li>Source code editor - JED (also capable of editing data files).</li>
<li>Debugger.</li>
</ul>
</div>



</body></html>