<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?--><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css"/>
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc"/>
  <title class="function">BITRESET</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="bitreset-function" class="section level1">
<a class="dashingAutolink" name="autolink-47"></a><a class="dashAnchor" name="//apple_ref/cpp/Function/BITRESET"></a><h1 class="function">BITRESET</h1>
<p>BITRESET resets the value of a specified bit in the local bit table to zero and returns the previous value of the bit.</p>
<div id="command-syntax-15" class="section level2">
<h2>COMMAND SYNTAX</h2>
<pre><code>BITRESET(table_no)</code></pre>
</div>
<div id="syntax-elements-10" class="section level2">
<h2>SYNTAX ELEMENTS</h2>
<p>table_no specifies the position in the table of the bit for reset. If table_no evaluates to zero, it resets all elements in the table to zero and returns the value zero.</p>
</div>
<div id="notes-7" class="section level2">
<h2>NOTES</h2>
<p>For each process, it maintains a unique table of 128 bits (numbered 1 to 128) and treats each bit in the table as a two-state flag - the value returned will always be zero or one.</p>
<p>BITRESET returns the previous value of the bit - you can reset and check a flag in one step.</p>
<p>BITRESET also provides some special functions if you use one of the following table_no values:</p>
<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th align="left">Code</th>
<th align="left">Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left">-1</td>
<td align="left">resets the BREAK key Inhibit bit.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left">-2</td>
<td align="left">resets the Command Level Restart feature.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left">-3</td>
<td align="left">resets the Break/End Restart feature.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p>See also: <a href="#BITSET">BITSET</a></p>
</div>
<div id="example-16" class="section level2">
<h2>EXAMPLE</h2>
<pre><code>    OLD.VALUE = BITRESET(112)
    PRINT OLD.VALUE</code></pre>
<p>If table entry 112 is one, it returns a value of one, resets bit 112 to 0, and prints one. If table entry 112 is zero, returns a value of 0, and prints 0.</p>
</div>
</div>



</body></html>