<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?--><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css"/>
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc"/>
  <title class="statement">CHAIN</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="chain-statement" class="section level1">
<a class="dashingAutolink" name="autolink-75"></a><a class="dashAnchor" name="//apple_ref/cpp/Method/CHAIN"></a><h1 class="statement">CHAIN</h1>
<p>The CHAIN statement exits the current program and transfers process control to the program defined by the expression. Process control will never return to the originating program.</p>
<div id="command-syntax-40" class="section level2">
<h2>COMMAND SYNTAX</h2>
<pre><code>CHAIN expression</code></pre>
</div>
<div id="syntax-elements-18" class="section level2">
<h2>SYNTAX ELEMENTS</h2>
<p>The expression should evaluate to a valid UNIX or Windows command (this may be another jBC program). The command string may be suffixed with the (I option, which will cause any COMMON variables in the current program to be inherited by the new program (providing it is a jBC program).</p>
</div>
<div id="notes-26" class="section level2">
<h2>NOTES</h2>
<p>There are no restrictions to the CHAIN statement and you may CHAIN from anywhere to anywhere. However, it is advisable that your program follows a logical path easily seen by another programmer. If the program, which contains the CHAIN command (the current program) was called from a JCL program, and the program to be executed (the target program) is another jBC program, control will return to the original JCL program when the target program terminates. If the target program is a JCL program, control will return to the command shell when the JCL program terminates.</p>
</div>
<div id="examples-4" class="section level2">
<h2>EXAMPLES</h2>
<pre><code>    CHAIN &#34;OFF&#34; ;* exit via the OFF command

    ! Prog1
    COMMON A,B
    A = 50 ; B = 100
    CHAIN &#34;NEWPROG (I&#34;

    ! NEWPROG
    COMMON I,J
    ! I and J inherited
    CRT I,J</code></pre>
</div>
</div>



</body></html>