<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?--><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css"/>
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc"/>
  <title class="function">EREPLACE</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="ereplace-function" class="section level1">
<a class="dashingAutolink" name="autolink-130"></a><a class="dashAnchor" name="//apple_ref/cpp/Function/EREPLACE"></a><h1 class="function">EREPLACE</h1>
<p>Use the EREPLACE function to replace substring in an expression with another substring. If you do not specify an occurrence, it replaces each occurrence of a substring.</p>
<div id="command-syntax-93" class="section level2">
<h2>COMMAND SYNTAX</h2>
<pre><code>EREPLACE(expression, substring, replacement [,occurrence [,begin] ] )</code></pre>
</div>
<div id="syntax-elements-57" class="section level2">
<h2>SYNTAX ELEMENTS</h2>
<p><strong>occurrence</strong> specifies the number of occurrences of substring to replace. To replace all occurrences, specify occurrence as a number less than 1. <strong>begin</strong> specifies the first occurrence to replace. If begin is omitted or less than one, it defaults to one. If <strong>substring</strong> is an empty string, replacement is prefixed to expression. If replacement is an empty string, it removes all occurrences of substring. If <strong>expression</strong> evaluates to null, it returns null. If substring, replacement, occurrence, or begin evaluates to null, the EREPLACE function fails and the program terminates with a run-time error message. The EREPLACE function behaves like the CHANGE function except when substring evaluates to an empty string.</p>
</div>
<div id="example-81" class="section level2">
<h2>EXAMPLE</h2>
<pre><code>A = &#34;AAABBBCCCDDDBBB&#34;
PRINT EREPLACE(A,&#39;BBB&#39;, &#39;ZZZ&#39;)
PRINT EREPLACE(A, &#39;&#39;, &#39;ZZZ&#39;)
PRINT EREPLACE(A, &#39;BBB&#39;, &#39;&#39;)</code></pre>
<p>The output of this program is:</p>
<pre>    AAAZZZCCCDDDZZZ
    ZZZAAABBBCCCDDDBBB
    AAACCCDDD</pre>
</div>
</div>



</body></html>