<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?--><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css"/>
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc"/>
  <title class="statement">FIND</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="find-statement" class="section level1">
<a class="dashingAutolink" name="autolink-142"></a><a class="dashAnchor" name="//apple_ref/cpp/Method/FIND"></a><h1 class="statement">FIND</h1>
<p>The FIND statement determines if a specified string fully matches to an element in a dynamic array.</p>
<div id="command-syntax-105" class="section level2">
<h2>COMMAND SYNTAX</h2>
<pre><code>FIND expression1 IN Var1 {, expression2} SETTING Var2 {, Var3 {, Var4}} \
     THEN | ELSE statement(s)</code></pre>
</div>
<div id="syntax-elements-66" class="section level2">
<h2>SYNTAX ELEMENTS</h2>
<p><strong>expression1</strong> evaluates to the string with which to compare every element of the dynamic array. Var1 is the dynamic array that will be searched. The FIND command will normally find the first occurrence of expression1 unless <strong>expression2</strong> is specified. If specified then expression2 will cause a specific occurrence of expression1 to be located. The three variables <strong>Var2, Var3, Var4</strong> are used to record the Field, Value and Sub-Value positions in which expression1 was found.</p>
<p>If expression1 is found in any element of Var1 then Vars 2, 3 and 4 are set to the position in which it was found and any THEN clause of the statement is executed. If expression1 is not found within any element of the dynamic array then Vars 2, 3 and 4 are undefined and the ELSE clause of the statement is executed.</p>
</div>
<div id="notes-66" class="section level2">
<h2>NOTES</h2>
<p>The statement may omit either the THEN clause or the ELSE clause but may not omit both. It is valid for the statement to contain both clauses if required.</p>
<p>See also: <a href="#LOCATE">LOCATE</a>, <a href="#FINDSTR">FINDSTR</a></p>
</div>
<div id="example-87" class="section level2">
<h2>EXAMPLE</h2>
<pre><code>   V.ARRAY = &#39;ABC&#39;   \
       :@FM: &#39;DEF&#39; :@VM: &#39;123&#39; :@VM: &#39;XYZ&#39; :@VM: &#39;456&#39; \
       :@FM: &#39;789&#39; \
       :@FM: &#39;---&#39; : @SM: &#39;XYZ&#39;
   GOSUB RESET.IT
   FIND &#39;XYZ&#39; IN V.ARRAY SETTING V.FLD, V.VAL ELSE NULL
   CRT V.FLD, V.VAL            ;*   2       3
   GOSUB RESET.IT
   FIND &#39;XYYYZ&#39; IN V.ARRAY SETTING V.FLD, V.VAL ELSE NULL
   CRT V.FLD, V.VAL            ;*   0       0
   GOSUB RESET.IT
   FIND &#39;XYZ&#39; IN V.ARRAY, 2 SETTING V.FLD, V.VAL, V.SVAL ELSE NULL
   CRT V.FLD, V.VAL, V.SVAL    ;*   4       1       2
   GOSUB RESET.IT
* Full match is required
   FIND &#39;XY&#39; IN V.ARRAY SETTING V.FLD, V.VAL ELSE NULL
   CRT V.FLD, V.VAL            ;*   0       0
   GOSUB RESET.IT
   STOP
RESET.IT:
   V.FLD = 0  ; V.VAL = 0  ;  V.SVAL = 0
   RETURN</code></pre>
</div>
</div>



</body></html>