<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?--><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css"/>
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc"/>
  <title class="statement">HEADING</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="heading-statement" class="section level1">
<a class="dashingAutolink" name="autolink-164"></a><a class="dashAnchor" name="//apple_ref/cpp/Method/HEADING"></a><h1 class="statement">HEADING</h1>
<p>Heading halts all subsequent output to the terminal at the end of each page. The statement evaluates and displays an expression at the top of each page. Current output sent to the terminal, is paused until entry of a carriage return at the terminal - unless the N option is specified.</p>
<div id="command-syntax-126" class="section level2">
<h2>COMMAND SYNTAX</h2>
<pre><code>HEADING expression</code></pre>
</div>
<div id="syntax-elements-84" class="section level2">
<h2>SYNTAX ELEMENTS</h2>
<p>The expression should evaluate to a string printed at the top of every page of output. The string may contain a number of interpreted special characters, replaced in the string before printing. The following characters have special meaning within the string:</p>
<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th align="left">Value</th>
<th align="left">Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left">&#34;C{n}&#34;</td>
<td align="left">Center the line. If n is specified the output line is</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"></td>
<td align="left">assumed to be n characters long.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left">&#34;D&#34; or \</td>
<td align="left">Replace with the current date.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left">&#34;L&#34; or ]</td>
<td align="left">Replace with the newline sequence.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left">&#34;N&#34;</td>
<td align="left">Terminal output does not pause at the end of each</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"></td>
<td align="left">page.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left">&#34;P&#34; or ^</td>
<td align="left">Replace with the current page number.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left">&#34;PP&#34; or ^^</td>
<td align="left">Replace with the current page number in a field of 4</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"></td>
<td align="left">characters. The field is right justified.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left">&#34;T&#34; or &nbsp;</td>
<td align="left">Replace with the current time and date.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left">&#34;</td>
<td align="left">Replace with a single &#34; character.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>
<div id="notes-80" class="section level2">
<h2>NOTES</h2>
<p>If output is to the printer, a PRINTER ON statement is in use, and does not page output sent to the terminal with the CRT statement. Unless you specify the &#34;N&#34; option, all output sent to the terminal is paged.</p>
</div>
<div id="examples-29" class="section level2">
<h2>EXAMPLES</h2>
<pre><code>HEADING &#39;Programming staff by size of waist Page &#34;P&#34;&#39;</code></pre>
</div>
</div>



</body></html>