<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?--><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css"/>
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc"/>
  <title class="function">ICONVS</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="iconvs-function" class="section level1">
<a class="dashingAutolink" name="autolink-168"></a><a class="dashAnchor" name="//apple_ref/cpp/Function/ICONVS"></a><h1 class="function">ICONVS</h1>
<p>Use ICONVS to convert each element of dynamic.array to a specified internal storage format.</p>
<div id="command-syntax-129" class="section level2">
<h2>COMMAND SYNTAX</h2>
<pre><code>ICONVS(dynamic.array, conversion)</code></pre>
</div>
<div id="syntax-elements-86" class="section level2">
<h2>SYNTAX ELEMENTS</h2>
<p><strong>conversion</strong> is an expression that evaluates to one or more valid conversion codes, separated by value marks (ASCII 253).</p>
<p>Each element of <strong>dynamic.array</strong> is converted to the internal format specified by conversion and is returned in a dynamic array. If multiple codes are used, they are applied from left to right. The first conversion code converts the value of each element of dynamic.array. The second conversion code converts the value of each element of the output of the first conversion, and so on. If dynamic.array evaluates to null, it returns null. If an element of dynamic.array is null, null it returns null for that element. If conversion evaluates to null, the ICONV function fails and the program terminates with a run-time error message.</p>
<p>The STATUS function reflects the result of the conversion:</p>
<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th align="left">Code</th>
<th align="left">Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left">0</td>
<td align="left">The conversion is successful.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left">1</td>
<td align="left">An element of dynamic.array is invalid. It returns an empty string,</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"></td>
<td align="left">unless dynamic.array is null, in which case it returns null.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left">2</td>
<td align="left">Conversion is invalid.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left">3</td>
<td align="left">Successful conversion of possibly invalid data.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p>See also: <a href="#OCONVS">OCONVS</a> function.</p>
</div>
</div>



</body></html>