<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?--><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css"/>
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc"/>
  <title class="statement">GETX</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="getx-statement" class="section level1">
<a class="dashingAutolink" name="autolink-159"></a><a class="dashAnchor" name="//apple_ref/cpp/Method/GETX"></a><h1 class="statement">GETX</h1>
<p>The GETX statement reads a block of data (in ASCII hexadecimal format) directly from a device.</p>
<div id="command-syntax-121" class="section level2">
<h2>COMMAND SYNTAX</h2>
<pre><code>GETX Var {,length} { SETTING Count } FROM Device { UNTIL TermChars } \
     { RETURNING TermChar } { WAITING Timeout } THEN | ELSE statements</code></pre>
</div>
<div id="syntax-elements-80" class="section level2">
<h2>SYNTAX ELEMENTS</h2>
<p><strong>Var</strong> is the variable in which to place the input (from the previously open Device).</p>
<p>If specifying a length it limits the number of characters read from the input device.</p>
<p>If the optional Count option is used, it returns the number of characters actually read from the device.</p>
<p>Device is the file variable associated with the result from a successful <a href="#OPENSEQ">OPENSEQ</a> or <a href="#OPENSER">OPENSER</a> command.</p>
<p><strong>TermChars</strong> specifies one or more characters that will terminate input.</p>
<p><strong>TermChar</strong> The actual character that terminated input</p>
<p><strong>Timeout</strong> is the number of seconds to wait for input. If no input is present when the timeout period expires, the ELSE clause (if specified) is executed.</p>
</div>
<div id="notes-77" class="section level2">
<h2>NOTES</h2>
<p>The GETX statement does no pre-or post-processing of the input data stream nor does it handle any terminal echo characteristics. It is assumed that if this is desired the application - or device drive - will handle it.</p>
<p>If there are no specified length and timeout expressions, the default input length is one (1) character. If there is no length specified, but TermChars are, there is no limit to the number of characters input. The GETX syntax requires a specified THEN or ELSE clause, or both. The THEN clause executes when the data received is error free; the ELSE clause executes when the data is unreceiveable (or a timeout occurs).</p>
<p>GETX will convert all input into ASCII hexadecimal format after input.</p>
<p>See also: <a href="#GET">GET</a></p>
</div>
</div>



</body></html>