<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?--><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css"/>
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc"/>
  <title class="statement">OSWRITE</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="oswrite-statement" class="section level1">
<a class="dashingAutolink" name="autolink-256"></a><a class="dashAnchor" name="//apple_ref/cpp/Method/OSWRITE"></a><h1 class="statement">OSWRITE</h1>
<p>The OSWRITE command writes the contents of an expression to a sequential file.</p>
<div id="command-syntax-215" class="section level2">
<h2>COMMAND SYNTAX</h2>
<pre><code>OSWRITE expr { ON | TO } filename [ ON ERROR statements ]</code></pre>
</div>
<div id="syntax-elements-155" class="section level2">
<h2>SYNTAX ELEMENTS</h2>
<p><strong>expr</strong> specifies the expression to be written into a file.</p>
<p><strong>ON | TO filename</strong> specifies the name of a sequential file to which the expression is to be written.</p>
<p><strong>ON ERROR</strong> statements are statements to be executed when the OSWRITE statement fails with fatal error (because the file is not open), I/O error, or jBASE cannot find the file. If you do not specify the ON ERROR clause and if a fatal error occurs, the program will enter the debugger.</p>
</div>
<div id="note-16" class="section level2">
<h2>NOTE</h2>
<p>JBASE uses the ASCII 0 character [CHAR(0)] as a string-end delimiter. For this reason, you cannot use ASCII 0 in any string variable in jBASE. If jBASE reads a string with a CHAR(0) character, and then the character is converted to CHAR(128), OSWRITE converts CHAR(128) to CHAR(0) when writing a block of characters.</p>
</div>
<div id="example-147" class="section level2">
<h2>EXAMPLE</h2>
<p>In the following example, the program segment writes the contents of FOOTWEAR variable to the file called &#34;PINK&#34; in the directory &#39;/usr/local/myslippers&#39;.</p>
<pre><code>OSWRITE FOOTWEAR ON &#34;/usr/local/myslippers/PINK&#34;</code></pre>
</div>
</div>



</body></html>