<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?--><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css"/>
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc"/>
  <title class="statement">PRINTERR</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="printerr-statement" class="section level1">
<a class="dashingAutolink" name="autolink-264"></a><a class="dashAnchor" name="//apple_ref/cpp/Method/PRINTERR"></a><h1 class="statement">PRINTERR</h1>
<p>PRINTERR statement is used to print standard jBASE error messages.</p>
<div id="command-syntax-222" class="section level2">
<h2>COMMAND SYNTAX</h2>
<pre><code>PRINTERR expression</code></pre>
</div>
<div id="syntax-elements-160" class="section level2">
<h2>SYNTAX ELEMENTS</h2>
<p>Field 1 of the <strong>expression</strong> should evaluate to the numeric or string name of a valid error message in the jBASE error message file. If the error message requires parameters then these can be passed to the message as subsequent fields of the expression.</p>
</div>
<div id="international-mode-19" class="section level2">
<h2>INTERNATIONAL MODE</h2>
<p>When the PRINTERR statement is used in International Mode, the error message file to be used, i.e. the default &#34;jBASICmessages&#34; or other as configured via the error message environment variable, will be suffixed with the current locale. For example, if the currently configured locale is &#34;fr_FR&#34; then the statement will attempt to find the specified error message record id in the &#34;jBASICmessages_fr_FR&#34; error message file. If the file cannot be found then the country code will be discarded and just the language code used. i.e. the file &#34;jBASICmessages_fr&#34; will be used. If this file is also not found then the error message file &#34;jBASICmessages&#34; will be used.</p>
</div>
<div id="notes-134" class="section level2">
<h2>NOTES</h2>
<p>The PRINTERR statement is most useful for user-defined messages that have been added to the standard set.</p>
<p>You should be very careful when typing this statement it is very similar to the PRINTER statement. Although this is not ideal, the PRINTERR statement must be supported for compatibility with older systems.</p>
</div>
<div id="example-150" class="section level2">
<h2>EXAMPLE</h2>
<pre><code>   PRINTERR 201 : CHAR(254) : &#34;CUSTOMERS&#34;</code></pre>
<p>Output:</p>
<pre>     &lowast;&lowast; Error [ 201 ] &lowast;&lowast;
    Unable to open file CUSTOMERS</pre>
</div>
</div>



</body></html>