<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?--><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css"/>
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc"/>
  <title class="statement">READBLK</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="readblk-statement" class="section level1">
<a class="dashingAutolink" name="autolink-274"></a><a class="dashAnchor" name="//apple_ref/cpp/Method/READBLK"></a><h1 class="statement">READBLK</h1>
<p>READBLK statement is used to read a block of data of a specified length from a file opened for sequential processing and assign it to a variable.</p>
<div id="command-syntax-232" class="section level2">
<h2>COMMAND SYNTAX</h2>
<pre><code>READBLK variable FROM file.variable, blocksize { THEN statements \
        [ ELSE statements ] | ELSE statements }</code></pre>
<p>The READBLK statement reads a block of data beginning at the current position in the file and continuing for blocksize bytes and assigns it to variable. The current position is reset to just beyond the last readable byte.</p>
<p><strong>file.variable</strong> specifies a file previously opened for sequential processing.</p>
<p>If the data can be read from the file, the THEN statements are executed; any ELSE statements are ignored. If the file is not readable or if the end of file is encountered, the ELSE statements are executed and the THEN statements are ignored. If the ELSE statements are executed, variable is set to an empty string. If either file.variable or blocksize evaluates to null, the READBLK statement fails and the program enters the debugger.</p>
</div>
<div id="international-mode-20" class="section level2">
<h2>INTERNATIONAL MODE</h2>
<p>When using the READBLK statement in International Mode, care must be taken to ensure that the input variable is handled properly subsequent to the READBLK statement. The READBLK statement requires that a &#34;bytecount&#34; be specified, however when manipulating variables in International Mode character length rather than byte lengths are usually used and hence possible confusion or program malfunction can occur.</p>
<p>If requiring character data convert the input variable from &#39;binary/latin1&#39; to UTF-8 byte sequence via the <a href="#UTF8">UTF8</a> function.</p>
<p>It is recommended that the <a href="#READBLK">READBLK</a>/<a href="#WRITEBLK">WRITEBLK</a> statements not be used when executing in International Mode. Similar functionality can be obtained via the <a href="#READSEQ">READSEQ</a>/<a href="#WRITESEQ">WRITESEQ</a> statement, which can be used to read/writecharacters a line at a time from a file.</p>
</div>
<div id="note-18" class="section level2">
<h2>NOTE</h2>
<p>A new line in UNIX files is one byte long, whereas in Windows NT it is two bytes long. This means that for a file with newlines, the same READBLK statement may return a different set of data depending on the operating system the file is stored under.</p>
<p>The difference between the <a href="#READSEQ">READSEQ</a> statement and the READBLK statement is that the READBLK statement reads a block of data of a specified length, whereas the READSEQ statement reads a single line of data.</p>
</div>
<div id="example-159" class="section level2">
<h2>EXAMPLE</h2>
<pre><code>   IF NOT( GETENV(&#39;TAFC_HOME&#39;, V.HOME) ) THEN
      CRT &#39;TAFC_HOME not defined&#39;
      STOP
   END
   V.FILE.IN = &#39;RELEASE&#39;
   V.FILE.INFO = DIR(V.HOME : &#39;/&#39; : V.FILE.IN)
   V.SIZE = V.FILE.INFO&lt;1&gt;
   OPENSEQ V.HOME, V.FILE.IN TO F.FILE.IN ELSE
      CRT &#39;Failed to open&#39;, V.FILE.IN
      STOP
   END
   V.BLK.SIZE = MINIMUM(V.SIZE :@FM: 512)
   READBLK V.TEXT FROM F.FILE.IN, V.BLK.SIZE ELSE
      CRT &#39;Failed to read&#39;, V.FILE.IN
      STOP
   END
   CRT V.TEXT[1, INDEX(V.TEXT, CHAR(10), 1)]   ;* 1st line, e.g.:
                                               ;* jBase Release : R11.0.0.0</code></pre>
</div>
</div>



</body></html>