<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?--><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css"/>
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc"/>
  <title class="statement">WRITEV</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="writev-statement" class="section level1">
<a class="dashingAutolink" name="autolink-364"></a><a class="dashAnchor" name="//apple_ref/cpp/Method/WRITEV"></a><h1 class="statement">WRITEV</h1>
<p>WRITEV statement allows a program to write a specific field of a record in a previously opened file.</p>
<div id="command-syntax-309" class="section level2">
<h2>COMMAND SYNTAX</h2>
<pre><code>WRITEV variable1 ON | TO {variable2,} expression1, expression2  \
     { SETTING setvar } { ON ERROR statements }</code></pre>
</div>
<div id="syntax-elements-237" class="section level2">
<h2>SYNTAX ELEMENTS</h2>
<p><strong>variable1</strong> is the identifier holding the record to be written.</p>
<p><strong>variable2</strong>, if specified, should be a jBC variable that has previously been opened to a file using the OPEN statement. If variable2 is not specified then it assumes the default file.</p>
<p><strong>expression1</strong> should evaluate to a valid record key for the file.</p>
<p><strong>expression2</strong> should evaluate to a positive integer number. If the number is greater than the number of fields in the record, it will add null fields to variable1. If expression2 evaluates to a non-numeric argument, it will generate a run time error.</p>
<p>If the SETTING clause is specified and the write fails, it sets setvar to one of the following values:</p>
</div>
<div id="incremental-file-errors-18" class="section level2">
<h2>INCREMENTAL FILE ERRORS</h2>
<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th align="left">Code</th>
<th align="left">Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left">128</td>
<td align="left">No such file or directory</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left">4096</td>
<td align="left">Network error</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left">24576</td>
<td align="left">Permission denied</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left">32768</td>
<td align="left">Physical I/O error or unknown error</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>
<div id="notes-195" class="section level2">
<h2>NOTES</h2>
<p>The WRITEV statement will cause the release of any lock held on the record by this program. If you wish to retain a lock on the record, do so explicitly with the WRITEVU statement.</p>
</div>
<div id="example-204" class="section level2">
<h2>EXAMPLE</h2>
<!--jBC-->
<pre><code>   EXECUTE &#39;DELETE-FILE DATA F.TEMP&#39;
   EXECUTE &#39;CREATE-FILE DATA F.TEMP 1 101 TYPE=J4&#39;
   OPEN &#39;F.TEMP&#39; TO f_temp ELSE ABORT 201, &#39;F.TEMP&#39;
   new_rec = &#39;LINE 1&#39; :@FM: &#39;LINE 2&#39; :@FM: &#39;LINE 3&#39;
   WRITE new_rec TO f_temp, &#39;REC1&#39;
   WRITEV &#39;LINE 2v2&#39; TO f_temp, &#39;REC1&#39;, 2 ON ERROR
      CRT &#39;WRITEV error&#39;
      STOP
   END
   EXECUTE &#34;I-DUMP F.TEMP &#39;REC1&#39;&#34;     ;* &#34;REC1^LINE 1^LINE 2v2^LINE 3^&#34;
   WRITEV &#39;LINE 7&#39; TO f_temp, &#39;REC1&#39;, 7 ON ERROR
      CRT &#39;WRITEV error&#39;
      STOP
   END
   EXECUTE &#34;I-DUMP F.TEMP &#39;REC1&#39;&#34;     ;* &#34;REC1^LINE 1^LINE 2v2^LINE 3^^^^LINE 7^&#34;</code></pre>
</div>
</div>



</body></html>